|Line|Sentence|String|Spanish
|-|-|-|-|
[40]|gender = "sister";|"sister"|Hermana
[41]|//title = "madame";|"madame"|Madame,
[45]|gender = "brother";|"brother"|Hermano
[46]|//title = " ";|" "|" "
[51]|greeting = "friends"; |"friends"|Amigos
[53]|greeting = "friend"; //Avatar is solo|"friend"|"Amigo"
[59]|av_1st_greet = "@Might we speak?@";|"@Might we speak?@"|¿Podríamos hablar?
[60]|npc_1st_greet = "@..if we must.@";|"@..if we must.@"|"@..si debemos.@"
[62]|av_2nd_greet  = "@Might we speak again?@";|"@Might we speak again?@"|¿Podríamos hablar otra vez?
[63]|npc_2nd_greet = "@What now?@";|"@What now?@"|¿Qué sucede ahora?
[76]|item.say("@You served your purpose by bringing me the cloak... Now I have no further need of you. I have big plans now, and no time to waste talking.@");  |"@You served your purpose by bringing me the cloak... Now I have no further need of you. I have big plans now, and no time to waste talking.@"|"Ustedes servido su propósito por traerme el capa... Ahora no tengo más necesidad de usted. Tengo grandes planes ahora, y no tengo tiempo que perder hablando."
[83]|item.say("@Have you found the storm cloak yet?@");|"@Have you found the storm cloak yet?@"|"¿Has encontrado el capote de tormenta todavía?"
[86]|item.say("@Then hand it over and we're even.@ His eyes gleam with greedy anticipation. Do you give him the cloak?@");|"@Then hand it over and we're even.@ His eyes gleam with greedy anticipation. Do you give him the cloak?@"|"Entonces, dáselo y estaremos a mano. Sus ojos brillan con codicia. ¿Le das el capote?"
[91]|item.say("He takes the cloak from you. @Thanks for keeping your word. There's not many that does, these days...@");|"He takes the cloak from you. @Thanks for keeping your word. There's not many that does, these days...@"|Él te quita el capote. @Gracias por mantener tu palabra. No hay muchos que lo hagan, estos días...@
[105]|item.say("@Blast ye! If I still had two good legs, I'd keelhaul the lot of you!@*");|"@Blast ye! If I still had two good legs, I'd keelhaul the lot of you!@*"|¡Maldición! Si todavía tuviera dos piernas buenas, ¡os arrastraría a todos por el fondo del barco!
[106]|item.say("@We had a deal! Besides, I helped steal that treasure myself, fair and square.@*");|"@We had a deal! Besides, I helped steal that treasure myself, fair and square.@*"|"¡Teníamos un trato! Además, ayudé a robar ese tesoro yo mismo, limpiamente."
[114]|item.say("@Then get off your duff and go dig it up!@");|"@Then get off your duff and go dig it up!@"|¡Entonces bájate de tu trasero y ve a buscarlo!
[124]|item.say("@So, have ye found the eight pieces of the map yet?@");|"@So, have ye found the eight pieces of the map yet?@"|"¿Ya habéis encontrado los ocho trozos del mapa?"
[129]|item.say("@Very well. I've been thinking about how we could work out a deal.@*");|"@Very well. I've been thinking about how we could work out a deal.@*"|"Muy bien. He estado pensando en cómo podríamos llegar a un acuerdo."
[130]|item.say("@I know you want the silver tablet. Far as I'm concerned, you can have it.@*");|"@I know you want the silver tablet. Far as I'm concerned, you can have it.@*"|@Sé que quieres la tableta de plata. Por lo que a mí respecta, puedes tenerla.@
[131]|item.say("@All I really want is the magical cloak that's buried with the rest of the treasure. So...@*");|"@All I really want is the magical cloak that's buried with the rest of the treasure. So...@*"|"@Todo lo que realmente quiero es el mágico cloak que está enterrado con el resto del tesoro. Así que...@*"
[132]|item.say("@I'll tell you where the ninth piece of the map is if you promise to bring me the cloak.@*");|"@I'll tell you where the ninth piece of the map is if you promise to bring me the cloak.@*"|"Te diré dónde está la novena pieza del mapa si me prometes traerme el capote."
[133]|item.say("@The rest of the treasure should be loot enough to satisfy you. Is it a deal?@*");|"@The rest of the treasure should be loot enough to satisfy you. Is it a deal?@*"|"¿Es suficiente tesoro como para satisfacerte? ¿Trato hecho?"
[136]|item.say("@Okay. The ninth piece of the map is hidden...Right here in my pocket!@ He grins wickedly. I had to keep it safe while you were off gathering the others, didn't I?@");|"@Okay. The ninth piece of the map is hidden...Right here in my pocket!@ He grins wickedly. I had to keep it safe while you were off gathering the others, didn't I?@"|"¡Sí! ¡La novena pieza del mapa está oculta...¡Aquí en mi bolsillo! Sonríe maliciosamente. ¡Tenía que mantenerla a salvo mientras recolectabas las demás, ¿no?
[137]|item.say("He hands you the last piece of the map. The island in the upper left hand corner is Buccaneer's Den.@");|"He hands you the last piece of the map. The island in the upper left hand corner is Buccaneer's Den.@"|Te entrega la última pieza del mapa. La isla en la esquina superior izquierda es la Ensenada de los Bucaneros.
[139]|item.say("@You'll keep your word and come right back here with the magic storm cloak, won't you?@");|"@You'll keep your word and come right back here with the magic storm cloak, won't you?@"|"¿Mantendrás tu palabra y regresarás aquí mismo con el caparazón de tormenta mágico, verdad?"
[142]|item.say("@Good. Then I'll tell you this: When you reach the island marked with the X, find the three stones and stand in the center.@*");|"@Good. Then I'll tell you this: When you reach the island marked with the X, find the three stones and stand in the center.@*"|"@Bueno. Entonces te diré esto: Cuando llegues a la isla marcada con la X, encuentra las tres piedras y ponte en el centro.@*"
[143]|item.say("@Then walk three paces due south, nine paces due west, and twelve more paces south. That should put you right next to an old dead tree.@*");|"@Then walk three paces due south, nine paces due west, and twelve more paces south. That should put you right next to an old dead tree.@*"|Luego camine tres pasos al sur, nueve pasos al oeste y otros doce pasos al sur. Eso debería ponerlo justo al lado de un viejo árbol muerto.
[144]|item.say("@Dig in the patch of dirt just to the south of you, and you'll find the treasure!@*");|"@Dig in the patch of dirt just to the south of you, and you'll find the treasure!@*"|"¡Cava en la parcela de tierra justo al sur de ti y encontrarás el tesoro!"
[154]|item.say("@Don't want to keep your word now that you have the map, eh? Well, then, I won't tell you where you need to dig to find the treasure!@");|"@Don't want to keep your word now that you have the map, eh? Well, then, I won't tell you where you need to dig to find the treasure!@"|"¿No quieres cumplir tu palabra ahora que tienes el mapa, eh? Bueno, entonces, ¡no te diré dónde necesitas cavar para encontrar el tesoro!"
[161]|item.say("@Suit yourself, mate, that's the only deal I'll offer.@");|"@Suit yourself, mate, that's the only deal I'll offer.@"|"Haz lo que quieras, amigo, esa es la única oferta que te haré."
[168]|item.say("@Best count again. You need eight pieces before I'll bargain with you.@");|"@Best count again. You need eight pieces before I'll bargain with you.@"|"@Mejor cuenta otra vez. Necesitas ocho piezas antes de que yo negocie contigo.@"
[171]|item.say("@Then what are you wasting my time for?@");|"@Then what are you wasting my time for?@"|¿Entonces para qué me estás haciendo perder el tiempo?
[177]|item.say("A shifty-eyed character. He carries a cane and walks with a slight limp.*");|"A shifty-eyed character. He carries a cane and walks with a slight limp.*"|Un personaje con ojos inescrutables. Lleva un bastón y camina con una leve cojera.
[180]|item.say("He takes your measure, looking you over from head to toe. @What do you want?@");|"He takes your measure, looking you over from head to toe. @What do you want?@"|Él te mide, te mira de arriba abajo. @¿Qué quieres?@
[200]|say("@Who wants to know?@"); |"@Who wants to know?@"|¿Quién quiere saber?
[202]|if (avatar_or_name == "I am the Avatar")|"I am the Avatar"|Soy el Avatar.
[203]|say("@Fine, 'Avatar', if that's who you really are... You can call me Homer.@");|"@Fine, 'Avatar', if that's who you really are... You can call me Homer.@"|"@Bien, 'Avatar', si eso es realmente quien eres... Puedes llamarme Homero.@"
[205]|say("@Fine, '" + player_name + "' - if that's what your name really is... You can call me Homer.@");|"@Fine, '" + player_name + "' - if that's what your name really is... You can call me Homer.@"|"@Bien, '" + player_name + "' - si ese es realmente tu nombre... Puedes llamarme Homero.@"
[209]|say("@I once sailed on the ship called 'Empire, under Captain Hawkins.@");|"@I once sailed on the ship called 'Empire, under Captain Hawkins.@"|"Yo una vez navegué en el barco llamado 'Empire', bajo el Capitán Hawkins."
[213]|say("@Well, get on with it!@");  |"@Well, get on with it!@"|¡Pues anda con ello!
[216]|say("@It was wrecked on the cape, southwest of here. Not too far from Serpent's Hold.@");|"@It was wrecked on the cape, southwest of here. Not too far from Serpent's Hold.@"|Fue destruido en el cabo, al sudoeste de aquí. No demasiado lejos de la fortaleza de la serpiente.
[219]|say("His eyes light up with hatred. @That heartless bastard...He was killed by his own men, and it was no worse than he deserved.@*");|"His eyes light up with hatred. @That heartless bastard...He was killed by his own men, and it was no worse than he deserved.@*"|Sus ojos se iluminan con odio. @Ese bastardo sin corazón...Fue asesinado por sus propios hombres, y no merecía nada menos.@*
[220]|say("He hesitates, then adds quickly, @Of course, I had nothing to do with it.@");|"He hesitates, then adds quickly, @Of course, I had nothing to do with it.@"|Él duda, luego agrega rápidamente, "Por supuesto, yo no tuve nada que ver con eso."
[225]|say("@You're looking for the silver tablet? It's part of Captain Hawkins' buried treasure.@");  // if in guild|"@You're looking for the silver tablet? It's part of Captain Hawkins' buried treasure.@"|"¿Estás buscando la tableta de plata? Es parte del tesoro enterrado del Capitán Hawkins.
[230]|say("He regards you warily. @Who sent you? I see.@ He screws his face up into an even more suspicious expression than before. @Just why do you want to know about it, anyway?@");  // question|"He regards you warily. @Who sent you? I see.@ He screws his face up into an even more suspicious expression than before. @Just why do you want to know about it, anyway?@"|"Te mira con recelo. @¿Quién te envió? Lo veo.@ Frunce el rostro hasta adoptar una expresión aún más sospechosa que antes. @¿De todas formas, por qué quieres saberlo?@"
[232]|if (question == "None of thy business")|"None of thy business"|Ninguno de tus asuntos.
[233]|say("@Uh-huh. You're not a member of the guild. I don't have to tell you anything.@");|"@Uh-huh. You're not a member of the guild. I don't have to tell you anything.@"|"¿Sí? No eres miembro de la guild. No tengo por qué decirte nada."
[234]|else if (question == "I need it")|"I need it"|Necesito eso.
[235]|say("@Uh-huh. You're not a member of the guild. I don't have to tell you anything.@");|"@Uh-huh. You're not a member of the guild. I don't have to tell you anything.@"|"¿Eh? No eres miembro de la hermandad. No tengo por qué contarte nada."
[242]|say("@It was buried in a small cave.@");  |"@It was buried in a small cave.@"|"Fue enterrado en una pequeña cueva."
[246]|say("@Don't know anything about it.@");|"@Don't know anything about it.@"|"No sé nada de eso."
[252]|say("@What are you talking about?@");|"@What are you talking about?@"|¿De qué estás hablando?
[259]|say("@After Captain Hawkins passed away, we tore his treasure map into nine pieces. The plan was, when nobody was looking for us any more, we'd get together and go dig it up.@*");|"@After Captain Hawkins passed away, we tore his treasure map into nine pieces. The plan was, when nobody was looking for us any more, we'd get together and go dig it up.@*"|Después de que el capitán Hawkins falleció, rompimos su mapa del tesoro en nueve piezas. El plan era, cuando nadie nos buscara más, nos reuniríamos y lo excavaríamos.
[260]|say("@Splitting up the map was my idea - that way nobody could doublecross the others. I figure after all these years the others must have given up, so its alright for me to search for the treasure by myself.@*");|"@Splitting up the map was my idea - that way nobody could doublecross the others. I figure after all these years the others must have given up, so its alright for me to search for the treasure by myself.@*"|@La separación del mapa fue mi idea, de esa manera nadie podría engañar a los demás. Supongo que después de todos estos años, los demás deben haberse rendido, así que está bien que yo busque el tesoro yo solo.@
[261]|say("@Trouble is, I've got a bit of the gout in one leg, and I can't travel much any more. Maybe we can help each other out. I know where my piece of the map is hidden, and if you bring me the other eight pieces, perhaps we could make a deal.@*"); |"@Trouble is, I've got a bit of the gout in one leg, and I can't travel much any more. Maybe we can help each other out. I know where my piece of the map is hidden, and if you bring me the other eight pieces, perhaps we could make a deal.@*"|"@El problema es que tengo un poco de gota en una pierna, y ya no puedo viajar mucho. Quizás podamos ayudarnos mutuamente. Sé dónde está oculto mi pedazo del mapa, y si me traes los otros ocho pedazos, quizás podamos hacer un trato.@*"
[262]|say("@I'll tell you all I know about where the pieces might be... Ol' Hawknose set out for the Dry Land, to kill the daemon that is said to live there.@*");|"@I'll tell you all I know about where the pieces might be... Ol' Hawknose set out for the Dry Land, to kill the daemon that is said to live there.@*"|"Te diré todo lo que sé sobre dónde podrían estar los trozos... Ol' Hawknose salió hacia la Tierra Seca, para matar al demonio que dicen que vive allí."
[263]|say("@Sandy, the ship's cook, went to Trinsic with the first mate.@*");|"@Sandy, the ship's cook, went to Trinsic with the first mate.@*"|"El cocinero del barco, Sandy, fue a Trinsic con el primer oficial."
[264]|say("@Old Ybarra said he was headed for the dungeon Shame, looking for more treasure. I think one of the men died in a shipwreck.@*");|"@Old Ybarra said he was headed for the dungeon Shame, looking for more treasure. I think one of the men died in a shipwreck.@*"|"@El viejo Ybarra dijo que se dirigía a la mazmorra de la vergüenza, buscando más tesoros. Creo que uno de los hombres murió en un naufragio.@*"
[265]|say("@Then there was one more... Can't remember his name, but I've heard tell he settled in Jhelom. He'll be easy to recognize - he has a hook in place o' one of his hands. That's all I know. Perhaps in your travels you can find out where the others have gone.@*");|"@Then there was one more... Can't remember his name, but I've heard tell he settled in Jhelom. He'll be easy to recognize - he has a hook in place o' one of his hands. That's all I know. Perhaps in your travels you can find out where the others have gone.@*"|Entonces hubo uno más... No puedo recordar su nombre, pero he oído que se estableció en Jhelom. Será fácil de reconocer: tiene un gancho en lugar de una de sus manos. Eso es todo lo que sé. Quizás en tus viajes puedas descubrir a dónde han ido los otros.
[266]|say("@When you find the pieces, you can lay them out on the ground to see how they fit together. But remember, only I know where the ninth piece is, so come back here when you've got the other eight.@");  // if in guild say|"@When you find the pieces, you can lay them out on the ground to see how they fit together. But remember, only I know where the ninth piece is, so come back here when you've got the other eight.@"|"Cuando encuentres las piezas, puedes colocarlas en el suelo para ver cómo encajan. Pero recuerda, solo yo sé dónde está la novena pieza, así que vuelve aquí cuando tengas las otras ocho."
[270]|say("@Go ask Budo. And you didn't hear that from me, understand?@");|"@Go ask Budo. And you didn't hear that from me, understand?@"|@Ve a preguntar a Budo. Y no me lo oyes, ¿entiendes?@
[276]|npc_goodbye = "@Farewell, " + gender + " thief.@"; |"@Farewell, " + gender + " thief.@"|¡Adiós, ladrón!
[278]|npc_goodbye = "@Can't say its been a pleasure.@";|"@Can't say its been a pleasure.@"|"No puedo decir que haya sido un placer."
[280]|avatar_goodbye = "@Must be going now..@";|"@Must be going now..@"|@Debo irme ahora..@
