|Line|Sentence|String|Spanish
|-|-|-|-|
[41]|//pronoun = "  ";|"  "|"  "
[42]|//title = "madame";|"madame"|"señora"
[46]|//pronoun = " ";|" "|" "
[47]|//title = " ";|" "|"Aquellos que no aprenden de la historia están condenados a repetirla."
[52]|greeting = "friends"; |"friends"|"amigos"
[54]|greeting = "friend"; //Avatar is solo|"friend"|"amigo"
[60]|av_1st_greet = "@My liege..@";|"@My liege..@"|@Mi señor...@
[61]|npc_1st_greet = "@Avatar, thou art here!@";|"@Avatar, thou art here!@"|@Avatar, estás aquí!@
[63]|av_2nd_greet  = "@My liege..@";|"@My liege..@"|Mi señor...
[64]|npc_2nd_greet = "@Yes, Avatar?@";|"@Yes, Avatar?@"|"¿Sí, Avatar?"
[80]|item.say("The noble ruler of Britannia.*");|"The noble ruler of Britannia.*"|El noble gobernante de Britannia.
[81]|item.say("@" + player_name + "! 'Tis good to see thee again. Much hath happened since thou last departed our realm.@");|"@" + player_name + "! 'Tis good to see thee again. Much hath happened since thou last departed our realm.@"|@ ¡Jugador_nombre! 'Tis bueno verte de nuevo. Mucho ha sucedido desde que te fuiste de nuestro reino. @
[85]|item.say("@Take this key. It will unlock the gatehouse by the southern entrance to the castle. Then you can use the lever inside to raise the portcullis, and the crank will lower the drawbridge.@*");|"@Take this key. It will unlock the gatehouse by the southern entrance to the castle. Then you can use the lever inside to raise the portcullis, and the crank will lower the drawbridge.@*"|@Toma esta llave. Abrirá la puerta del castillo por la entrada sur. Luego podrás usar la palanca dentro para levantar el portón, y la manivela bajará el puente levadizo.@*
[86]|item.say("@The same key will also let you into the sewers under the castle. Now let me tell thee what hath transpired since thy last visit.@*");|"@The same key will also let you into the sewers under the castle. Now let me tell thee what hath transpired since thy last visit.@*"|"La misma llave te permitirá también entrar a los alcantarillados debajo del castillo. Ahora déjame contarte lo que ha sucedido desde tu última visita."
[89]|item.say("@The vast underworld from which thou didst rescue me hath collapsed. Yet still there are forces of evil abroad in the land.@*");|"@The vast underworld from which thou didst rescue me hath collapsed. Yet still there are forces of evil abroad in the land.@*"|"El vasto mundo subterráneo del que me rescataste ha colapsado. Sin embargo, todavía hay fuerzas del mal en el país."
[90]|item.say("@Britannia is under attack by gargoyles such as those thou just fought. They have been coming up through the dungeons.@*");|"@Britannia is under attack by gargoyles such as those thou just fought. They have been coming up through the dungeons.@*"|"La Britannia está siendo atacada por gargoyles como los que acabas de luchar. Han estado subiendo a través de los calabozos."
[91]|item.say("@Thus far they have mainly been attacking the shrines of the eight virtues.@*");|"@Thus far they have mainly been attacking the shrines of the eight virtues.@*"|Hasta ahora, principalmente han estado atacando los santuarios de las ocho virtudes.
[92]|item.say("@When the Shrine of Compassion didst fall, Sir Geoffrey sent a party to free it. Do thou ask him of this mission. Perhaps thou canst prove of some assistance.@");|"@When the Shrine of Compassion didst fall, Sir Geoffrey sent a party to free it. Do thou ask him of this mission. Perhaps thou canst prove of some assistance.@"|"Cuando la Tumba de la Compasión cayó, el señor Geoffrey envió una partida para liberarla. Pregúntale por esta misión. Quizás puedas ser de ayuda."
[93]|item.say("@Whilst thou art here, I have a room in the castle set aside for thy personal use. 'Tis in the west wing of the castle, just south of mine own chambers. I have had my servants place some equipment there, in case thou shouldst have need of it.@**");|"@Whilst thou art here, I have a room in the castle set aside for thy personal use. 'Tis in the west wing of the castle, just south of mine own chambers. I have had my servants place some equipment there, in case thou shouldst have need of it.@**"|"Mientras estés aquí, tengo una habitación en el castillo destinada a tu uso personal. Está en el ala oeste del castillo, justo al sur de mis propias estancias. He pedido a mis sirvientes que pongan algunos enseres allí, por si necesitas algo."
[94]|item.say("@Of course, thou mayst feel free to borrow anything in my castle, if thou shouldst need it.@");|"@Of course, thou mayst feel free to borrow anything in my castle, if thou shouldst need it.@"|"Por supuesto, puedes sentirte libre de tomar prestado cualquier cosa en mi castillo, si lo necesitas."
[95]|item.say("@Lastly, any time thou dost need healing, do thou but ask me. If thou doth wish me to repeat all this later thou need but ask.@");|"@Lastly, any time thou dost need healing, do thou but ask me. If thou doth wish me to repeat all this later thou need but ask.@"|"Siempre que necesites sanación, solo tienes que pedírmelo. Si quieres que te repita todo esto más tarde, solo tienes que pedírmelo."
[101]|item.say("The noble ruler of Britannia.*");|"The noble ruler of Britannia.*"|El noble gobernante de Britannia.
[102]|item.say("@Good " + time_of_day + ", " + player_name + ". What wouldst thou speak of?@");|"@Good " + time_of_day + ", " + player_name + ". What wouldst thou speak of?@"|"@Good " + tiempo_del_día + ", " + nombre_del_jugador + ". ¿De qué quieres hablar?@"
[136]|say("@I am Lord British, as thou knowest well.@");|"@I am Lord British, as thou knowest well.@"|"Yo soy Lord British, como bien sabes."
[139]|say("@Thanks to thee, I sit once more upon the throne of Britannia.@*");|"@Thanks to thee, I sit once more upon the throne of Britannia.@*"|"@Gracias a ti, me siento una vez más en el trono de Britannia.@*"
[140]|say("@Though 'tis a heavy burden in such troubled times as these.@");|"@Though 'tis a heavy burden in such troubled times as these.@"|"Aunque sea una carga pesada en estos tiempos difíciles."
[144]|say("Lord British waves his hand, and your whole party is healed!");|"Lord British waves his hand, and your whole party is healed!"|Lord British hace un gesto con la mano, y todos en tu grupo son sanados!
[158]|say("@The vast underworld from which thou didst rescue me hath collapsed. Yet still there are forces of evil abroad in the land.@*");|"@The vast underworld from which thou didst rescue me hath collapsed. Yet still there are forces of evil abroad in the land.@*"|@El vasto mundo subterráneo del que me rescataste ha colapsado. Sin embargo, todavía hay fuerzas del mal en el país.@*
[159]|say("@Britannia is under attack by gargoyles such as those thou just fought. They have been coming up through the dungeons.@*");|"@Britannia is under attack by gargoyles such as those thou just fought. They have been coming up through the dungeons.@*"|"Britania está siendo atacada por gargoyles como los que acabas de luchar. Han estado subiendo a través de los calabozos."
[160]|say("@Thus far they have mainly been attacking the shrines of the eight virtues.@*");|"@Thus far they have mainly been attacking the shrines of the eight virtues.@*"|Hasta ahora, han estado principalmente atacando los santuarios de las ocho virtudes.
[161]|say("@When the Shrine of Compassion didst fall, Sir Geoffrey sent a party to free it. Do thou ask him of this mission. Perhaps thou canst prove of some assistance.@");|"@When the Shrine of Compassion didst fall, Sir Geoffrey sent a party to free it. Do thou ask him of this mission. Perhaps thou canst prove of some assistance.@"|"Cuando la Tumba de la Compasión cayó, el señor Geoffrey envió un grupo para liberarla. Pregúntale por esta misión. Quizás puedas ser de ayuda."
[162]|say("@Whilst thou art here, I have a room in the castle set aside for thy personal use. 'Tis in the west wing of the castle, just south of mine own chambers. I have had my servants place some equipment there, in case thou shouldst have need of it.@**");|"@Whilst thou art here, I have a room in the castle set aside for thy personal use. 'Tis in the west wing of the castle, just south of mine own chambers. I have had my servants place some equipment there, in case thou shouldst have need of it.@**"|"Mientras estás aquí, tengo una habitación en el castillo para tu uso personal. Está en el ala oeste del castillo, justo al sur de mis propias habitaciones. He ordenado a mis sirvientes que pongan algunos enseres allí, por si necesitas algo."
[163]|say("@Of course, thou mayst feel free to borrow anything in my castle, if thou shouldst need it.@");|"@Of course, thou mayst feel free to borrow anything in my castle, if thou shouldst need it.@"|"Por supuesto, puedes sentirte libre de tomar prestado cualquier cosa en mi castillo, si lo necesitas."
[164]|say("@Lastly, any time thou dost need healing, do thou but ask me. If thou doth wish me to repeat all this later thou need but ask.@");|"@Lastly, any time thou dost need healing, do thou but ask me. If thou doth wish me to repeat all this later thou need but ask.@"|"@Por último, cualquier momento en que necesites sanación, solo tienes que pedírmelo. Si deseas que repita todo esto más tarde, solo tienes que pedirlo.@"
[168]|say("@The gargoyles art indeed the greatest threat our realm has ever known.@*");|"@The gargoyles art indeed the greatest threat our realm has ever known.@*"|"Los gargoyles son en efecto la mayor amenaza que nuestro reino haya conocido jamás".
[169]|say("@We are fortunate indeed that fate hath brought thee here in our hour of need.@");|"@We are fortunate indeed that fate hath brought thee here in our hour of need.@"|"Nosotros somos afortunados de que el destino te haya traído aquí en nuestra hora de necesidad."
[173]|say("@Perhaps thou canst drive these vile creatures back into the bowels of the earth from whence they came.@*");|"@Perhaps thou canst drive these vile creatures back into the bowels of the earth from whence they came.@*"|Quizá puedas conducir a estas repugnantes criaturas de regreso a las entrañas de la tierra de donde vinieron.
[174]|say("@All our efforts thus far have availed us naught.@");|"@All our efforts thus far have availed us naught.@"|Todos nuestros esfuerzos hasta ahora no han servido de nada.
[177]|say("@By now the gargoyles may have captured them all.@*");|"@By now the gargoyles may have captured them all.@*"|@Por esta hora, los gargoyles pueden haber capturado a todos.@*
[178]|say("@Thou must hurry if thou wouldst foil their evil schemes...@");|"@Thou must hurry if thou wouldst foil their evil schemes...@"|"@Tú debes apresurarte si quieres frustrar sus malvados planes...@"
[182]|say("@Stay strong in thy commitment to the eight virtues.@*");|"@Stay strong in thy commitment to the eight virtues.@*"|"Mantente fuerte en tu compromiso con las ocho virtudes."
[183]|say("@It is our belief in them that sets us apart from the cruel invaders who would destroy all that we hold dear.@");|"@It is our belief in them that sets us apart from the cruel invaders who would destroy all that we hold dear.@"|"Creemos en ellos, y eso nos diferencia de los crueles invasores que quieren destruir todo lo que amamos."
[186]|say("@He is the Captain of the Guard.@");|"@He is the Captain of the Guard.@"|"Él es el Capitán de la Guardia."
[189]|say("You show Lord British the black stone.*");|"You show Lord British the black stone.*"|Mostradle el Señor Británico la piedra negra.
[190]|say("@Hmmmm... I have such a stone, as thou may recall. I did not know that there were more such orbs.@*");|"@Hmmmm... I have such a stone, as thou may recall. I did not know that there were more such orbs.@*"|"@Hmm... Tengo una piedra como la tuya, como tal vez recuerdes. No sabía que había más esferas como ésta.@*"
[192]|say("@To open a gate, use the stone, and carefully position it a few feet from thee.@");|"@To open a gate, use the stone, and carefully position it a few feet from thee.@"|"Para abrir una puerta, usa la piedra y colócala cuidadosamente a unos pies de ti."
[199]|say("@Ask the leaders of each town to tell thee of that.@");|"@Ask the leaders of each town to tell thee of that.@"|"Pregunta a los líderes de cada pueblo que te cuenten sobre eso."
[202]|say("@Do thou ask Tholden.@");|"@Do thou ask Tholden.@"|"¿Preguntas a Tholden?"
[206]|say("@He is my chancellor.@");|"@He is my chancellor.@"|"Él es mi canciller."
[210]|say("@Aye, Tholden is my chancellor.@");|"@Aye, Tholden is my chancellor.@"|"@Sí, Tholden es mi canciller.@"
[215]|say("@Please take good care of my little friend.@");|"@Please take good care of my little friend.@"|Por favor, cuida bien a mi pequeño amigo.
[219]|say("@Ah, thou hast heard of my little friend? Her name is Sherry, and I'm quite proud of her.@*");|"@Ah, thou hast heard of my little friend? Her name is Sherry, and I'm quite proud of her.@*"|"@¿Has oído hablar de mi pequeña amiga? Se llama Sherry, y estoy muy orgullosa de ella.@*"
[227]|say("@I collect rare books. There's one in particular I've been hunting for many years.@*");|"@I collect rare books. There's one in particular I've been hunting for many years.@*"|@Recolecto libros raros. Hay uno en particular que he estado buscando durante muchos años.@*
[228]|say("@It's called 'The Wizard of Oz.' Ever heard of it?@");|"@It's called 'The Wizard of Oz.' Ever heard of it?@"|"Se llama 'El Mago de Oz.' ¿Alguna vez has oído hablar de ello?"
[242]|say("@Thou hath found a copy!@*");|"@Thou hath found a copy!@*"|¡Has encontrado una copia!
[243]|say("@Long hath I anticipated this moment...@*");|"@Long hath I anticipated this moment...@*"|Hace mucho tiempo que esperaba este momento...
[244]|say("@Not since my childhood have I read this wondrous story.@");|"@Not since my childhood have I read this wondrous story.@"|"No desde mi niñez he leído esta maravillosa historia."
[245]|say("Gingerly, he takes the tome. @Here is your reward.@ He gives you some glowing gems.");|"Gingerly, he takes the tome. @Here is your reward.@ He gives you some glowing gems."|"Con cuidado, toma el tomo. @Aquí está tu recompensa.@ Te da algunas gemas brillantes."
[265]|say("@My favorite story is 'Hubert the Lion.'@");|"@My favorite story is 'Hubert the Lion.'@"|"Mi historia favorita es 'Hubert el león.'"
[269]|say("@I've known it by heart, ever since I heard it as a child.@*");|"@I've known it by heart, ever since I heard it as a child.@*"|@Sé de memoria desde que lo escuché por primera vez cuando era niño.@*
[270]|say("@Hubert the Lion was haughty and vain, and especially proud of his elegant mane.@*");|"@Hubert the Lion was haughty and vain, and especially proud of his elegant mane.@*"|@Hubert el león era arrogante y vanidoso, y especialmente orgulloso de su elegante melena.@*
[271]|say("@But conceit of this sort is not proper at all, and Hubert the Lion was due for a fall.@");|"@But conceit of this sort is not proper at all, and Hubert the Lion was due for a fall.@"|"Pero este tipo de presumir no es correcto en absoluto, y Huberto el León estaba a punto de sufrir una derrota."
[274]|say("@Who told thee of that nickname!?@*");|"@Who told thee of that nickname!?@*"|¿Quién te dijo ese apodo!?
[275]|say("@Well, I'd rather thou didst not call me that.@");|"@Well, I'd rather thou didst not call me that.@"|"Bien, preferiría que no me llamaras así."
[278]|say("@'Tis I who should thank thee, Avatar, for all thou hast done for Britannia.@");|"@'Tis I who should thank thee, Avatar, for all thou hast done for Britannia.@"|"Es a mí a quien deberías dar las gracias, Avatar, por todo lo que has hecho por Britannia."
[281]|say("@Chuckles? Hast thou seen him? I do hope nothing hath happened to him, he hasn't been around lately...@");|"@Chuckles? Hast thou seen him? I do hope nothing hath happened to him, he hasn't been around lately...@"|"@Chuckles? Lo has visto? Espero que no le haya pasado nada, ultimamente no ha estado por aqui...@"
[284]|say("You break your promise to Chuckles and explain to Lord British that Chuckles usurped his power during his absence, hid Lucy's death from him and hid his association with Drudgeworth.");|"You break your promise to Chuckles and explain to Lord British that Chuckles usurped his power during his absence, hid Lucy's death from him and hid his association with Drudgeworth."|Rompiste tu promesa a Chuckles y le explicaste a Lord British que Chuckles usurpó su poder durante su ausencia, ocultó la muerte de Lucy de él y ocultó su asociación con Drudgeworth.
[285]|say("Lord British looks incredulous.  @Avatar, those are pretty serious accusations. How dost thou know of this, is there proof?@");|"Lord British looks incredulous.  @Avatar, those are pretty serious accusations. How dost thou know of this, is there proof?@"|"Lord British parece incredulo. @Avatar, estas son muy serias acusaciones. ¿Cómo sabes de esto, hay pruebas? @"
[290]|say("Lord British reads the leaflet and furrows his brow. @This is definitely not my handwriting but it its my stationary. Conspiring to keep this secret from me for all those years...@");|"Lord British reads the leaflet and furrows his brow. @This is definitely not my handwriting but it its my stationary. Conspiring to keep this secret from me for all those years...@"|Mi señor British lee el folleto y frunce el ceño. @Esto definitivamente no es mi letra, pero es mi papelería. conspirando para mantener este secreto de mí durante todos esos años ... @
[291]|say("@..and wenching! Such lewd behavior is inappropriate for members of my royal court. That poor girl.@");|"@..and wenching! Such lewd behavior is inappropriate for members of my royal court. That poor girl.@"|@..y andar de farras! Este comportamiento lascivo no es apropiado para los miembros de mi corte real. Esa pobre chica.@
[292]|say("He sighs. @I must have a talk with Chuckles over this. What else shall you have me do, after all these years? And why now, bring it to my attention when we have more pressing matters such as the gargoyle invasion?@");|"He sighs. @I must have a talk with Chuckles over this. What else shall you have me do, after all these years? And why now, bring it to my attention when we have more pressing matters such as the gargoyle invasion?@"|"Él suspira. @Debo hablar con Chuckles sobre esto. ¿Qué más quieres que haga, después de todos estos años? ¿Y por qué ahora, cuando tenemos asuntos más urgentes como la invasión de los gárgolas? @"
[293]|say("@" + player_name + ", I knowest Honesty is one of the virtues and all..@");|"@" + player_name + ", I knowest Honesty is one of the virtues and all..@"|@jugador_nombre, sé que la honestidad es una de las virtudes y todo..@
[294]|say("@but really Avatar...@");|"@but really Avatar...@"|"Pero en serio, Avatar..."
[295]|say("@..thou musn't tattle.@");|"@..thou musn't tattle.@"|"@..thou musn't tattle.@" = "@..no debes chismear.@"
[307]|say("@Well Avatar, where is it? Why are you wasting time with wild accusations while the gargoyles are running amok?@");|"@Well Avatar, where is it? Why are you wasting time with wild accusations while the gargoyles are running amok?@"|"¿Dónde está el Avatar, Well? ¿Por qué estás desperdiciando tiempo con acusaciones salvajes mientras los gargoyles están corriendo amok?"
[313]|avatar_goodbye = "@Farewell, my liege.@";|"@Farewell, my liege.@"|"@Adiós, mi señor.@"
[314]|npc_goodbye = "@May fortune favor thee.@";|"@May fortune favor thee.@"|"@Que la fortuna te favorezca.@"
